CHI 2014 Papers and Notes

Reviews of submission #1441: "A Context Menu for the Real World:
Controlling Physical Appliances Through Head-Worn Infrared Targeting"

------------------------ Submission 1441, Review 4 ------------------------

Reviewer:           primary

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   This paper explores the usage of a modified hmd as remote control for
   smart appliances.  A very simple proof-of-concept prototype is detailed
   alongside a comparative user study. Results indicate that the
   head-orientation based approach outperforms a linear list shown on the
   hmd. I think this is a very small contribution and it is mainly based on
   the thoroughness of the study design and execution.

Overall Rating

   3.0 - Neutral: Overall I would not argue for accepting or rejecting this paper. 

Expertise

   4  (Expert )

The Review

   he paper proposes the usage of a IR emitter attached to a commercially
   available hmd in combination with IR receivers installed in the
   environment. The head orientation is used to initiate device (or
   receiver) communication. Once a device is selected the actual device
   control is performed using the wearable computer. 

   Using direct pointing as control method for real-world objects is
   certainly not novel and using a head-worn optical emitter only makes
   sense when the user has already opted into wearing the hmd. This in turn
   makes the idea of using head orientation a rather straightforward (but
   not generalizable) choice - I think the paper should tone down the
   discussion and claims in that respect somewhat. The discussion of classic
   VR literature is entertaining but not really all that relevant here as
   this technique stands and falls with the (prior) decision to wear a hmd.
   Without this no user would strap an IR emitter to their head, given that
   they still needed to get a phone or other computing device out of their
   pocket.

   So if the concept (and implementation) is only a small contribution then
   the main contribution must lie in the findings from the experiment. Not
   surprisingly the bulk of the paper is made up by the different user
   studies. I think the experiments are very well designed, structured and
   reported. Furthermore the baseline for comparison (linear list on hmd)
   makes sense. However, I do wonder how much we learn from the experiments.


   The first experiment (device characterization) is somewhat odd as most of
   the results should be attainable by consulting the datasheets and some
   basic trigonometry unless I'm missing something. Of course taking
   real-world measurements is valuable in the case of a real-world proposal
   but this technology is certainly not what one would use in the real world
   (the authors admit this in the conclusion). Therefore the value of this
   exercise is very limited.  

   The second experiment (appliance acquisition) is much more meaningful and
   the results show that the proposed technique works better for
   establishing communication with a smart appliance than the baseline. But
   the question is does it matter? The savings over the baseline might be
   statistically significant over the baseline but the task that is being
   measured is only a fraction of the interaction. Surely actually
   controlling the appliance is the more complex task (other than in the
   most simplest cases such as lights) and will take up the most time. This
   is not even discussed in the paper and it would have been interesting to
   see whether the initiation of communication is actually the important
   part or whether it is dominated by the actual device control. This
   omission does dampen the contribution somewhat and I would recommend the
   authors discuss this in their rebuttal. 

   A final question is how the findings translate into the real world. The
   paper admits that the technology itself is unlikely to be implemented as
   is (due to the need of IR receivers and LED everywhere in the
   environment). So one wonders what is the proposal for a real world
   implementation? The suggestion that a camera based solution could be the
   next step is farfetched as many technical difficult questions that aren't
   in the slightest addressed remain and I would say that it is
   intellectually dishonest to suggest the two approaches share many
   communalities (a necessary condition in order for the findings of this
   paper to be meaningful).  

   In summary, I think this is a well written paper, well controlled and
   executed study with mildly interesting results. Overall there is a small
   contribution that may or may not be enough for a full paper at CHI.

The Meta-Review

   The   external reviewers are very much on the fence about this paper. R1
   scores the lowest (2.5) and is the most critical in particular about the
   generality of the concept and presentation of the paper. R2 gives a 3.5
   score but does not provide many arguments that speak for inclusion of the
   paper - in fact this reviewer has concerns about the novelty of the work
   but appreciates the well-executed study. R3 also scores 3.5 and is the
   most positive of the reviewers, this reviewer likes the study in general
   and the choice of baseline  in particular. 

   R1 raises concerns about the novelty of the approach. While many of the
   approaches that use direct pointing have been discussed in the submission
   this review also points to additional work that uses gaze, which is even
   more accurate than the head-orientation proposed here. The reviewer
   summarizes the concerns in saying "this paper presents a cool (maybe
   somewhat obvious) idea, which was fully implemented, but it does not
   contribute much new in terms of concept or technical depth".  

   The reviewer also echoes my own concerns about how much this idea stands
   on its own feet "If you happen to use
   Glass, sure, you'd probably install this--but getting Glass for the sake
   of a better universal remote control is not convincing". And suggests
   that the first part of the study should be "substantially shortened" and
   asks for clarification of the associated figures. The reviewer also
   raises a very good point in asking how the advantages of the list-based
   approach are considered here (or rather aren't).  Overall I would suggest
   the authors take these issues seriously and try to address as many as
   possible in their rebuttal.

   R2 provides additional links to related work and asks for clarifications
   in several places.

   As mentioned earlier R3 is the most positive and  thinks "paper is very
   well written and structured and addresses a timely and relevant research
   area" and argues that the "overall interaction concept is very well
   explained and the individual steps are very well motivated". The reviewer
   also asks "to include a discussion of the technologies / approaches one
   would / could use in practice when commercializing such a system".
   Despite the overall positive outlook R3 thinks that the contribution is
   probably limited "to 8 pages so it’s crisper and avoids lengthy
   discussion of not so important aspects".

   I would encourage the authors to address as many points of criticism as
   possible in their rebuttal  especially concerns about the novelty of the
   concept, the generality of it and the real-world relevance of the study
   findings.


------------------------ Submission 1441, Review 1 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   This paper presents a universal remote control implementation based on
   Google Glass. To this end, Glass is augmented with a narrow-beam IR
   emitter and a radio, and target appliances with an IR receiver, a radio,
   and LEDs for feedback. Users look in the general direction of a target
   for selection (using IR) and they control a target via an UI displayed in
   Glass (using radio communication). The authors also present a
   disambiguation technique. A user study suggests that users prefer and are
   faster with selection based on head direction compared to list-based
   selection.

Overall Rating

   2.5 . . . Between possibly reject and neutral 

Expertise

   4  (Expert )

The Review

   This paper presents a practical solution for a universal remote control
   based on Google Glass. The system is fully implemented and appears to
   work smoothly in a lab environment (judging from the video figure).
   Interactions for selecting a remote appliance are straightforward and I
   could imagine myself using such a system--if I had Glass.

   On the downside, the idea of equipping appliances with sensors and
   combining IR and radio for controlling them from a distance is not
   new--and has been shown several times (as cited by the authors). To my
   knowledge, no one used the head direction for selection so far, but
   others proposed gaze [A], which is arguably a more accurate version of
   head direction. Further, it is difficult to generalize from the presented
   study results as they seem to be rather specific to a certain
   implementation and the test environment.

   In short, I think this paper presents a cool (maybe somewhat obvious)
   idea, which was fully implemented, but it does not contribute much new in
   terms of concept or technical depth. It feels like it could be a great
   CHI note, rather than a full paper.

   =Details=

   I rather see this system as an extension to Glass (or similar HMD AR
   systems), not as a new standalone solution for a universal remote
   control. Therefore, I have difficulties with the author's motivation of
   overcoming limitations of handheld universal remote controls by
   introducing a HMD-based system (p. 1, right column). If you happen to use
   Glass, sure, you'd probably install this--but getting Glass for the sake
   of a better universal remote control is not convincing.

   The device characterization study could be substantially shortened. It
   would be sufficient to tell the reader what range is covered. After all,
   the presented numbers are specific to the used hardware. On top, the used
   LED or receiver model is not even mentioned. Also, Table 1 is confusing.
   First, I believe the order of "distance" and "depth" should be switched.
   Second, why is it that with increasing distance between sender and
   receiver the angle gets more narrow--shouldn't it be the other way
   around?

   It seems that the user study results do not generalize well as
   acquisition times obviously depend on the number of devices and their
   spatial arrangement (e.g., Figure 10b and 11 underline this). In this
   study, only 10% of selections required disambiguation. How would a more
   cluttered environment influence the results?  In addition, I do not agree
   with the authors' decision of artificially introducing a visual
   localization task for the list condition. One of the advantages of the
   list-based approach is that devices do _not_ need to be in sight. It is
   unclear if users would be faster without this localization step. Also,
   with an increasing number of available appliances, one would probably not
   use a linear list but a hierarchical menu structure, thus shortening the
   selection time.

   Regarding user feedback: asking if something was cumbersome already
   introduces a bias. On top, why did you not ask the same question for IR?
   As it is, there is no meaningful result being produced.

   Regarding the home scenario: It does not seem to make a lot of sense to
   compare the ease of use controlling devices of different complexities,
   since the focus of the presented system is device selection. The actual
   control UIs are not further discussed.

   What is missing is a discussion of multi-user scenarios. What happens if
   there are a couple of people in a room all using this system
   simultaneously?


   =Other Comments=
   * please use the metric system throughout the paper
   * I do not understand why there is an additional UI list displayed if
   multiple devices are within range--aren't the LEDs indication enough?
   * p. 4, right column: typo, should read "placed" not "places"
   * in the study, why 15 target acquisition tasks if you had only 10
   targets? where do the additional 5 tasks come from?
   * p. 6, user preference: 11 preferred IR, 3 list, 1 was undecided = 15
   participants, but there were only 14
   * Figure 12: scale is wrong, cannot "strongly" agree to "ease of…"
   * Figure 12 adn 14: you cannot use the mean for ordinal scales, such as a
   Likert scale, it does not make sense; rather use mode or median
   * p. 7: enumeration uses smaller fonts

   =Additional References=
   [A] http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1057041
   [B] http://people.inf.ethz.ch/mringwal/publ/ringwald-interaction.pdf


------------------------ Submission 1441, Review 2 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   This paper presents a method for interacting with smart appliances using
   an optical head-mounted display (in this case Google Glass). The proposed
   method uses a narrow-beam IR emitter to target IR-sensor-equipped
   receivers on appliances, enabling selection of devices using head
   orientation. A user study is provided to assess the efficacy of the
   proposed technique over previous appliance-selection approaches.

Overall Rating

   3.5 . . . Between neutral and possibly accept 

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review

   == Overall ==
   The paper presents an interesting, scalable method for targeting smart
   appliances indoors. The use of head orientation to target devices is
   especially appropriate for a head-mounted display like the Google Glass.
   The evaluation demonstrates useful improvements in targeting performance
   and usability.

   The paper is well-written, and the video does a reasonable job of
   describing the system’s design.

   I have relatively few comments for this paper. My primary reservation is
   that it may not constitute a work that is sufficiently novel to deserve a
   full paper; however, the paper mostly makes up for this by having a good
   study and discussion.

   I feel that the paper is a reasonable candidate for inclusion, as it is a
   relatively interesting, well-thought-out interaction technique, which is
   backed by a good implementation, study and discussion.

   == Related Work ==

   Missing reference:

   David Fleer and Christian Leichsenring. 2012. MISO: a context-sensitive
   multimodal interface for smart objects based on hand gestures and finger
   snaps. In Adjunct proceedings of the 25th annual ACM symposium on User
   interface software and technology (UIST Adjunct Proceedings '12). ACM,
   New York, NY, USA, 93-94. DOI=10.1145/2380296.2380338
   http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/2380296.2380338 
   	This project provides a point-and-snap interface for controlling smart
   objects, a two-step process similar to the orient-and-confirm approach
   proposed in this paper.

   == Implementation and Evaluation ==
   The completeness of the implementation is appropriate for the scope of
   the paper.

   The frequency of the IR emitter chirps (ID signal transmissions) should
   be specified.

   In each of the completion time figures (figure 10), several black points
   are shown. I interpret these as outliers, but it would be clearer to
   state this in the description (and describe how the outliers were
   determined).

   Participant age and gender distribution should be specified.


------------------------ Submission 1441, Review 3 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   The paper introduces a novel concept for selection of and interaction
   with physical appliances using a head-worn display. The authors describe
   nicely the novel interaction concept and the implementation of the
   prototype. A comparative study shows the advantages of the approach over
   the state of the art (list based selection) in terms of task completion
   time and preferences. The presented research could be seen as a
   significant scientific contribution supporting the selection of and
   interaction with objects in smart environments. 

Overall Rating

   3.5 . . . Between neutral and possibly accept 

Expertise

   4  (Expert )

The Review

   The paper is very well written and structured and addresses a timely and
   relevant research area / problem (selection of and interaction with
   physical appliances). 

   The introduction describes nicely the issues of currently available
   (list-based) solutions (heavily used in practice) and discusses also the
   disadvantages of using mobile devices when compared with using a head
   worn display.  

   The discussion of augmented reality interfaces and interaction with
   head-worn displays is rather brief and should be extended. Include e.g. 
   "Augmented Reality Through Wearable Computing" from Starner et al.

   The overall interaction concept is very well explained and the individual
   steps are very well motivated. Here it might be beneficial to discuss
   whether the "three different LEDs" approach would be useful in practice /
   real life (probably not as they would be disturbing and there are
   probably many situations in which one can't identify the colour of a
   LED). Here it would be beneficial to include a discussion of alternative
   approaches which rely e.g. exclusively on Google Glass when it comes to
   feedback. 

   The paper discusses intensively the technology used for the prototype.
   This is positive as this would help others to build a similar system and
   to re-run the user study. But it would be beneficial to include a
   discussion of the technologies / approaches one would / could use in
   practice when commercializing such a system.   

   Include a discussion of the statistics regarding the user behaviour when
   using Google Glass when more than one target was in range: Did most of
   them reposition themselves or did most (how many) use the disambiguation
   approach?

   The smart home control scenario is nice to have but it's not that
   beneficial for the paper in terms of scientific contribution. In general
   I would think that the authors could compress the paper to 8 pages so
   it’s crisper and avoids lengthy discussion of no so important aspects. 

   The well designed user study speaks for the presented approach in terms
   of task completion time and error rate (when compared with the state of
   the art - list based selection) and should therefore be seen as a
   significant scientific contribution (=accepted for CHI). The most
   important contributions are:
   - the paper is the first to report an interaction techniques for for the
   selection of and interaction with physical appliances using a head-worn
   display
   - the paper shows a prototypical implementation that shows the
   feasibility of the approach, shows practical requirements and provides
   the basis for a corresponding user study
   - the user study shows the advantages of the presented approach when
   compared with the state of the art (in a laboratory setting)

   Minor comments:
   - a footnote regarding Google Glass (first page) is not necessary
   (anymore)
   - Figure 2a is not referenced in the text
   - The paper is partially tricky to read as many figures and tables seem
   to be at arbitrary locations. A table or figure should always appear
   close to the text where it belongs to.



